# IE343_TermProject
This code implements the simulated annealing algorithm to solve the knapsack problem while maximizing the total value with respecting the weight constraint. The main class includes the main logic for solving the knapsack problem using a simulated annealing algorithm. In the first part, variables and parameters are defined such as max temperature and cooling rate for annealing and values, weights, knapsack capacity, and population size for the knapsack problem. Then, it defines the solution state variables. These variables are for the current and best solutions found during the execution. In the main, the process is initialized. Also, the random number generator is initialized after the first part. 
While loop is used that continues until the temperature drops below 1. This while loop launches the simulated annealing process. Inside the loop, the new neighbor solution is generated by copying the current solution and finding a random. With the help of the “calculateValue” method, the fitness value of the neighbor solution is calculated. Then the acceptance probability of the neighbor solution is calculated using the “calculateAcceptanceProbability” method. If the neighbor solution has a higher fitness value, the acceptance probability is set to 1. Otherwise, it is calculated based on the temperature and the difference between current and neighbor values. If the neighbor solution is accepted, the current solution and value are updated. The best solution is updated if the current solution has a higher value found so far. Then, the temperature is decreased by multiplying it by 1-cooling rate. After the loop ends, the execution of the algorithm stops. 

Questions:
1)	How does the execution time change when cooling rate increased?

When the cooling rate is increased, the execution time of the algorithm is decreased. A higher cooling rate causes the temperature to decrease faster. In conclusion, the algorithm converges faster; so, the execution time is decreasing.

2)	How does the execution time and solution quality change when the difference between starting temperature and stopping temperature is increased?

When the difference between starting temperature and stopping temperature is increased, the algorithm performs better. Because it performs more iterations and gives a better solution which means that the solution quality is improved. However, since the number of iterations is higher, the execution time is increasing. This is because increasing the difference between the starting and stopping temperatures leads to a longer process to reach lower temperatures.
